GOVERNANCE.md, before:

# Fastify Project Governance

<!-- TOC -->

* [Lead Maintainers](#lead-maintainers)
* [Collaborators](#collaborators)
  * [Collaborator activities](#collaborator-activities)
* [Great Contributors](#great-contributors)
* [Collaborator nominations](#collaborator-maintainers-nominations)
* [Lead Maintainers nominations](#lead-maintainers-nominations)
* [Consensus seeking process](#consensus-seeking-process)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Lead Maintainers

Fastify Lead Maintainers are the organization owners.
They are the only members of the `@fastify/leads` team. The Lead
Maintainers are the curator of the Fastify project and their key responsibility
is to issue releases of Fastify and its dependencies.
They manage the [Open Collective](./EXPENSE_POLICY.md) funds and are responsible
for approving expenses and invoices.

## Collaborators

Fastify Collaborators maintain the projects of the Fastify organization.

They are split into the following teams:

|  Team | Responsibility  |  Repository |
|---|---|---|
| `@fastify/leads` | Fastify Lead Maintainers | GitHub organization owners |
| `@fastify/core`   |  Fastify Core development  |  `fastify`, `fast-json-stringify`, `light-my-request`, `fastify-plugin`, `middie` |
| `@fastify/plugins`   |  Build, maintain and release Fastify plugins  |  All plugins repositories |
| `@fastify/benchmarks`   |  Build and maintain our benchmarks suite  |  `benchmarks` |
| `@fastify/docs-chinese`   |  Translate the Fastify documentation in Chinese  |  `docs-chinese` |

Every member of the org is also part of `@fastify/fastify`.

Collaborators have:

* Commit access to the projects repository of the team they belong
 * Grant to release new versions of the project

Both Collaborators and non-Collaborators may propose changes to the source code
of the projects of the organization. The mechanism to propose such a change is a
GitHub pull request. Collaborators review and merge (_land_) pull requests
following the [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#rules) guidelines.

### Collaborator activities

* Helping users and novice contributors
* Contributing code and documentation changes that improve the project
* Reviewing and commenting on issues and pull requests
* Participation in working groups
* Merging pull requests
* Release plugins

The Lead Maintainers can remove inactive Collaborators or provide them with
_Past Collaborators_ status. Past Collaborators may request that the Lead
Maintainers restore them to active status.


## Great Contributors

Great contributors on a specific area in the Fastify ecosystem will be invited
to join this group by Lead Maintainers. This group has the same permissions of a
contributor.

## Collaborator nominations

Individuals making significant and valuable contributions to the project may be
a candidate to join the Fastify organization.

A Collaborator needs to open a private team discussion on GitHub and list the
candidates they want to sponsor with a link to the user's contributions. For
example:

* Activities in the Fastify organization
  `[USERNAME](https://github.com/search?q=author:USERNAME+org:fastify)`

Otherwise, a Contributor may self-apply if they believe they meet the above
criteria by reaching out to a Lead Maintainer privately with the links to their
valuable contributions. The Lead Maintainers will reply to the Contributor and
will decide if candidate it to be made a collaborator.

The consensus to grant a new candidate Collaborator status is reached when:

- at least one of the Lead Maintainers approve
- at least two of the Team Members approve

After these conditions are satisfied, the [onboarding
process](CONTRIBUTING.md#onboarding-collaborators) may start.


## Lead Maintainers nominations

A Team Member may be promoted to a Lead Maintainers only through nomination by a
Lead maintainer and with agreement from the rest of Lead Maintainers.


## Consensus seeking process

The Fastify organization follows a [Consensus Seeking][] decision-making model.

[Consensus Seeking]:
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus-seeking_decision-making

Commit message:

feat: define inactivity example
Following: 
- https://github.com/orgs/fastify/discussions/51

Signed-off-by: Manuel Spigolon <behemoth89@gmail.com>

GOVERNANCE.md, after:

# Fastify Project Governance

<!-- TOC -->

* [Lead Maintainers](#lead-maintainers)
* [Collaborators](#collaborators)
  * [Collaborator activities](#collaborator-activities)
* [Great Contributors](#great-contributors)
* [Collaborator nominations](#collaborator-maintainers-nominations)
* [Lead Maintainers nominations](#lead-maintainers-nominations)
* [Consensus seeking process](#consensus-seeking-process)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Lead Maintainers

Fastify Lead Maintainers are the organization owners.
They are the only members of the `@fastify/leads` team. The Lead
Maintainers are the curator of the Fastify project and their key responsibility
is to issue releases of Fastify and its dependencies.
They manage the [Open Collective](./EXPENSE_POLICY.md) funds and are responsible
for approving expenses and invoices.

## Collaborators

Fastify Collaborators maintain the projects of the Fastify organization.

They are split into the following teams:

|  Team | Responsibility  |  Repository |
|---|---|---|
| `@fastify/leads` | Fastify Lead Maintainers | GitHub organization owners |
| `@fastify/core`   |  Fastify Core development  |  `fastify`, `fast-json-stringify`, `light-my-request`, `fastify-plugin`, `middie` |
| `@fastify/plugins`   |  Build, maintain and release Fastify plugins  |  All plugins repositories |
| `@fastify/benchmarks`   |  Build and maintain our benchmarks suite  |  `benchmarks` |
| `@fastify/docs-chinese`   |  Translate the Fastify documentation in Chinese  |  `docs-chinese` |

Every member of the org is also part of `@fastify/fastify`.

Collaborators have:

* Commit access to the projects repository of the team they belong
 * Grant to release new versions of the project

Both Collaborators and non-Collaborators may propose changes to the source code
of the projects of the organization. The mechanism to propose such a change is a
GitHub pull request. Collaborators review and merge (_land_) pull requests
following the [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#rules) guidelines.

### Collaborator activities

* Helping users and novice contributors
* Contributing code and documentation changes that improve the project
* Reviewing and commenting on issues and pull requests
* Participation in working groups
* Merging pull requests
* Release plugins

The Lead Maintainers can remove inactive Collaborators or provide them with
_Past Collaborators_ status (example: no contributions for 2 years).
Past Collaborators may request that the Lead
Maintainers restore them to active status.


## Great Contributors

Great contributors on a specific area in the Fastify ecosystem will be invited
to join this group by Lead Maintainers. This group has the same permissions of a
contributor.

## Collaborator nominations

Individuals making significant and valuable contributions to the project may be
a candidate to join the Fastify organization.

A Collaborator needs to open a private team discussion on GitHub and list the
candidates they want to sponsor with a link to the user's contributions. For
example:

* Activities in the Fastify organization
  `[USERNAME](https://github.com/search?q=author:USERNAME+org:fastify)`

Otherwise, a Contributor may self-apply if they believe they meet the above
criteria by reaching out to a Lead Maintainer privately with the links to their
valuable contributions. The Lead Maintainers will reply to the Contributor and
will decide if candidate it to be made a collaborator.

The consensus to grant a new candidate Collaborator status is reached when:

- at least one of the Lead Maintainers approve
- at least two of the Team Members approve

After these conditions are satisfied, the [onboarding
process](CONTRIBUTING.md#onboarding-collaborators) may start.


## Lead Maintainers nominations

A Team Member may be promoted to a Lead Maintainers only through nomination by a
Lead maintainer and with agreement from the rest of Lead Maintainers.


## Consensus seeking process

The Fastify organization follows a [Consensus Seeking][] decision-making model.

[Consensus Seeking]:
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus-seeking_decision-making
