SECURITY.md, before:

# Security Policy

This document describes the management of vulnerabilities for the Fastify
project and its official plugins.

## Reporting vulnerabilities

Individuals who find potential vulnerabilities in Fastify are invited to
complete a vulnerability report via the GitHub Security Advisory:
[https://github.com/fastify/fastify/security/advisories/new](https://github.com/fastify/fastify/security/advisories/new).

### Strict measures when reporting vulnerabilities

It is of the utmost importance that you read carefully and follow these
guidelines to ensure the ecosystem as a whole isn't disrupted due to improperly
reported vulnerabilities:

* Avoid creating new "informative" reports on GitHub Security Advisory. Only create new
  security reports on a vulnerability if you are absolutely sure this should be
  tagged as an actual vulnerability. Third-party vendors and individuals are
  tracking any new vulnerabilities reported in GitHub Security Advisory and will flag them as
  such for their customers (think about snyk, npm audit, ...).
* Security reports should never be created and triaged by the same person. If
  you are creating a security report for a vulnerability that you found, or on
  behalf of someone else, there should always be a 2nd Security Team member who
  triages it. If in doubt, invite more Fastify Collaborators to help triage the
  validity of the report. In any case, the report should follow the same process
  as outlined below of inviting the maintainers to review and accept the
  vulnerability.
* ***Do not*** attempt to show CI/CD vulnerabilities by creating new pull
  requests to any of the Fastify organization's repositories. Doing so will
  result in a [content report][cr] to GitHub as an unsolicited exploit.
  The proper way to provide such reports is by creating a new repository,
  configured in the same manner as the repository you would like to submit
  a report about, and with a pull request to your own repository showing
  the proof of concept.

[cr]: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/maintaining-your-safety-on-github/reporting-abuse-or-spam#reporting-an-issue-or-pull-request

### Vulnerabilities found outside this process

⚠ The Fastify project does not support any reporting outside the GitHub Security Advisory
process described in this document.

## Handling vulnerability reports

When a potential vulnerability is reported, the following actions are taken:

### Triage

**Delay:** 4 business days

Within 4 business days, a member of the security team provides a first answer to
the individual who submitted the potential vulnerability. The possible responses
can be:

* Acceptance: what was reported is considered as a new vulnerability
* Rejection: what was reported is not considered as a new vulnerability
* Need more information: the security team needs more information in order to
  evaluate what was reported.

Triaging should include updating issue fields:
* Asset - set/create the module affected by the report
* Severity - TBD, currently left empty

Reference: [GitHub Security Advisory](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/repository-security-advisories/creating-a-repository-security-advisory)

### Correction follow-up

**Delay:** 90 days

When a vulnerability is confirmed, a member of the security team volunteers to
follow up on this report.

With the help of the individual who reported the vulnerability, they contact the
maintainers of the vulnerable package to make them aware of the vulnerability.
The maintainers can be invited as participants to the reported issue.

With the package maintainer, they define a release date for the publication of
the vulnerability. Ideally, this release date should not happen before the
package has been patched.

The report's vulnerable versions upper limit should be set to:
* `*` if there is no fixed version available by the time of publishing the
  report.
* the last vulnerable version. For example: `<=1.2.3` if a fix exists in `1.2.4`

### Publication

**Delay:** 90 days

Within 90 days after the triage date, the vulnerability must be made public.

**Severity**: Vulnerability severity is assessed using [CVSS
v.3](https://www.first.org/cvss/user-guide).

If the package maintainer is actively developing a patch, an additional delay
can be added with the approval of the security team and the individual who
reported the vulnerability.

At this point, a CVE should be requested through GitHub Security Advisory, which should include the Report ID and a summary.

Reference: [GitHub Security Advisories](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories)

## The Fastify Security team

The core team is responsible for the management of the security program and this
policy and process.

Members of this team are expected to keep all information that they have
privileged access to by being on the team completely private to the team. This
includes agreeing to not notify anyone outside the team of issues that have not
yet been disclosed publicly, including the existence of issues, expectations of
upcoming releases, and patching of any issues other than in the process of their
work as a member of the Fastify Core team.

### Members

* [__Matteo Collina__](https://github.com/mcollina),
  <https://x.com/matteocollina>, <https://www.npmjs.com/~matteo.collina>
* [__Tomas Della Vedova__](https://github.com/delvedor),
  <https://x.com/delvedor>, <https://www.npmjs.com/~delvedor>
* [__Vincent Le Goff__](https://github.com/zekth)
* [__KaKa Ng__](https://github.com/climba03003)
* [__James Sumners__](https://github.com/jsumners),
  <https://x.com/jsumners79>, <https://www.npmjs.com/~jsumners>
* [__Rafael Gonzaga__](https://github.com/RafaelGSS),
  <https://x.com/_rafaelgss>, <https://www.npmjs.com/~rafaelgss>

## OpenSSF CII Best Practices

[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/7585/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/7585)

There are three “tiers”: passing, silver, and gold.

### Passing
We meet 100% of the “passing” criteria.

### Silver
We meet 87% of the “silver” criteria. The gaps are as follows:
  - we do not have a DCO or a CLA process for contributions.
  - we do not currently document
    “what the user can and cannot expect in terms of security” for our project.
  - we do not currently document ”the architecture (aka high-level design)”
    for our project.

### Gold
We meet 70% of the “gold” criteria. The gaps are as follows:
  - we do not yet have the “silver” badge; see all the gaps above.
  - We do not include a copyright or license statement in each source file.
    Efforts are underway to change this archaic practice into a
    suggestion instead of a hard requirement.
  - There are a few unanswered questions around cryptography that are
    waiting for clarification.

Commit message:

docs: update security reporting to use GitHub Security Advisories
- Use relative link to point to the repository's own security advisory page
- Add historical note about HackerOne program closure
- Clarify that reports go to individual project's GitHub Security Advisories

Ref: https://github.com/fastify/fastify/issues/6468

SECURITY.md, after:

# Security Policy

This document describes the management of vulnerabilities for the Fastify
project and its official plugins.

## Reporting vulnerabilities

Individuals who find potential vulnerabilities in Fastify are invited to
complete a vulnerability report via the [GitHub Security Advisory][advisory].

> **Note:** Historically, the Fastify project used [HackerOne](https://hackerone.com/fastify)
> for vulnerability reporting. That program is now closed. All new vulnerability
> reports should be submitted through GitHub Security Advisories of the individual projects.

[advisory]: ../../security/advisories/new

### Strict measures when reporting vulnerabilities

It is of the utmost importance that you read carefully and follow these
guidelines to ensure the ecosystem as a whole isn't disrupted due to improperly
reported vulnerabilities:

* Avoid creating new "informative" reports on GitHub Security Advisory. Only create new
  security reports on a vulnerability if you are absolutely sure this should be
  tagged as an actual vulnerability. Third-party vendors and individuals are
  tracking any new vulnerabilities reported in GitHub Security Advisory and will flag them as
  such for their customers (think about snyk, npm audit, ...).
* Security reports should never be created and triaged by the same person. If
  you are creating a security report for a vulnerability that you found, or on
  behalf of someone else, there should always be a 2nd Security Team member who
  triages it. If in doubt, invite more Fastify Collaborators to help triage the
  validity of the report. In any case, the report should follow the same process
  as outlined below of inviting the maintainers to review and accept the
  vulnerability.
* ***Do not*** attempt to show CI/CD vulnerabilities by creating new pull
  requests to any of the Fastify organization's repositories. Doing so will
  result in a [content report][cr] to GitHub as an unsolicited exploit.
  The proper way to provide such reports is by creating a new repository,
  configured in the same manner as the repository you would like to submit
  a report about, and with a pull request to your own repository showing
  the proof of concept.

[cr]: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/maintaining-your-safety-on-github/reporting-abuse-or-spam#reporting-an-issue-or-pull-request

### Vulnerabilities found outside this process

⚠ The Fastify project does not support any reporting outside the GitHub Security Advisory
process described in this document.

## Handling vulnerability reports

When a potential vulnerability is reported, the following actions are taken:

### Triage

**Delay:** 4 business days

Within 4 business days, a member of the security team provides a first answer to
the individual who submitted the potential vulnerability. The possible responses
can be:

* Acceptance: what was reported is considered as a new vulnerability
* Rejection: what was reported is not considered as a new vulnerability
* Need more information: the security team needs more information in order to
  evaluate what was reported.

Triaging should include updating issue fields:
* Asset - set/create the module affected by the report
* Severity - TBD, currently left empty

Reference: [GitHub Security Advisory](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/repository-security-advisories/creating-a-repository-security-advisory)

### Correction follow-up

**Delay:** 90 days

When a vulnerability is confirmed, a member of the security team volunteers to
follow up on this report.

With the help of the individual who reported the vulnerability, they contact the
maintainers of the vulnerable package to make them aware of the vulnerability.
The maintainers can be invited as participants to the reported issue.

With the package maintainer, they define a release date for the publication of
the vulnerability. Ideally, this release date should not happen before the
package has been patched.

The report's vulnerable versions upper limit should be set to:
* `*` if there is no fixed version available by the time of publishing the
  report.
* the last vulnerable version. For example: `<=1.2.3` if a fix exists in `1.2.4`

### Publication

**Delay:** 90 days

Within 90 days after the triage date, the vulnerability must be made public.

**Severity**: Vulnerability severity is assessed using [CVSS
v.3](https://www.first.org/cvss/user-guide).

If the package maintainer is actively developing a patch, an additional delay
can be added with the approval of the security team and the individual who
reported the vulnerability.

At this point, a CVE should be requested through GitHub Security Advisory, which should include the Report ID and a summary.

Reference: [GitHub Security Advisories](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories)

## The Fastify Security team

The core team is responsible for the management of the security program and this
policy and process.

Members of this team are expected to keep all information that they have
privileged access to by being on the team completely private to the team. This
includes agreeing to not notify anyone outside the team of issues that have not
yet been disclosed publicly, including the existence of issues, expectations of
upcoming releases, and patching of any issues other than in the process of their
work as a member of the Fastify Core team.

### Members

* [__Matteo Collina__](https://github.com/mcollina),
  <https://x.com/matteocollina>, <https://www.npmjs.com/~matteo.collina>
* [__Tomas Della Vedova__](https://github.com/delvedor),
  <https://x.com/delvedor>, <https://www.npmjs.com/~delvedor>
* [__Vincent Le Goff__](https://github.com/zekth)
* [__KaKa Ng__](https://github.com/climba03003)
* [__James Sumners__](https://github.com/jsumners),
  <https://x.com/jsumners79>, <https://www.npmjs.com/~jsumners>
* [__Rafael Gonzaga__](https://github.com/RafaelGSS),
  <https://x.com/_rafaelgss>, <https://www.npmjs.com/~rafaelgss>

## OpenSSF CII Best Practices

[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/7585/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/7585)

There are three “tiers”: passing, silver, and gold.

### Passing
We meet 100% of the “passing” criteria.

### Silver
We meet 87% of the “silver” criteria. The gaps are as follows:
  - we do not have a DCO or a CLA process for contributions.
  - we do not currently document
    “what the user can and cannot expect in terms of security” for our project.
  - we do not currently document ”the architecture (aka high-level design)”
    for our project.

### Gold
We meet 70% of the “gold” criteria. The gaps are as follows:
  - we do not yet have the “silver” badge; see all the gaps above.
  - We do not include a copyright or license statement in each source file.
    Efforts are underway to change this archaic practice into a
    suggestion instead of a hard requirement.
  - There are a few unanswered questions around cryptography that are
    waiting for clarification.
